Good evening London,      
  Allow me first to apologize. I do, like many of you, appreciate   the comforts of the everyday routine, the security of the familiar, the tranquility of repetition. I enjoy them as much as any bloke.  But in the spirit of commemoration, whereby important events  of the past usually associated with someone’s death or the end of some awful, bloody struggle are celebrated with a nice holiday. I thought we could mark this November the 5th a day that is, sadly no longer remembered by taking some time out of our daily.lives to sit down and have a ittle chat. There are, of course, those who do not want us to speak. I suspect even now, orders are being shouted into telephones and men with guns will soon be  on their way. Why? Because while the truncheon may be used  in lieu of conversation, words will always retain their power. Words offer the means to meaning and, for those who will listen, the enunciation of truth. And the truth is, there is something terribly wrong with this country, isn't it there?  
  Cruelty and injustice, intolerance and oppression, and where once you had the freedom to object to think and speak as you saw fit, you now have censors and system of surveillance coercing your conformity and soliciting submission.How did this happen? Who’s to blame? Certainly there are those who are more responsible than others. And they will be held accountable. But again, truth be told, if you’re looking for the guilty you need only look into a mirror.  
  I know why you did it. I know you were afraid. Who wouldn’t be? War, terror, disease. There were a myriad of problems which conspired to corrupt your reason and rob you of your common  sense.Fear got the best of you. And in your panic, you turned to  the now High Chancellor Adam Sutler. He promised you order, he promised you peace and all he demanded in return was your silent, obedient consent.  
  Last night, I sought to end that silence. Last night, I destroyed the Old Bailey to remind this country of what it has forgotten.  
  More than 400 years ago, a great citizen wished to imbed the 5th of November forever in our memory. His hope was to remind the world that fairness, justice and freedom are more than words. They are perspectives. So if you’ve seen nothing, if the crimes of this government remain unknown to you, then I would suggest that you allow the 5th of November to pass unmarked. But if you see what I see, if you feel as I feel, and if you would seek as I seek, then I ask you to stand beside me, one year from tonight, outside the gates of Parliament. And together, we shall give them a 5th of November that shall never, ever be forgot. 
                                               V 晚上好，伦敦。        
  首先，请允许我向你们道歉。我和你们很多人一样，欣赏规律生活的舒适，熟悉面孔带来的安全感，以及日复一日的平静。我跟任何一个人都一样享受这些，不过，就节庆角度来讲，这节庆是从美好的角度来庆祝过去的重大事件，这通常和某人的死亡，或者血腥残酷的斗争结束有关，我想我们可以通过抽出一点时间坐下来聊聊得方式来纪念今年的11月5日，一个被可悲的遗忘了的日子。        
  当然，有些人不希望我们讲话，我怀疑就在此时此刻，电话里吼叫着命令，全副武装的人很快就会上路，为什么？因为沉默代替了谈话，言语总能保持他的力量，言语提供了表达见解的方式，而且他也可以告诉那些愿意倾听的人们真相，而真相是，这个国家有些事情不正常的可怕，不是么？        
  残暴，不公，歧视和镇压，在这块土地上，你们曾经有过反对的自由，有过思考和言论的自由，而你们现在拥有的是胁迫你们就犯的审查制度和监视系统。这是怎么发生的？又应该怪谁？当然，有些人要背负比别人更大的责任，并且他们也会为此付出代价的。但是，说实话，如果你们要找罪人的话，只需要照照镜子好了。我知道你们为什么如此，我知道你们害怕，谁不害怕呢？战争、恐怖事件、疾病……无数的问题企图要摧毁你的理性，剥夺你的常识，恐惧控制了你，你在慌乱中投向了元首先生，亚当沙特勒。他许诺给你们秩序，给你们和平，所要的回报就是你的服从和沉默。昨晚，我决定结束这沉默。昨晚我摧毁了老巴里街，来提醒这个国家他所忘记的事情。        
  400多年前，一位伟大的公民打算将11月5号永远刻入我们的记忆之中，他希望以此提醒世界，公平，正义和自由不止是口号而已，他们应该是我们实现的目标。所以，如果你什么也没有看见，仍然对这个政府犯下的罪行一无所知，我建议你让这个11月5日平淡的过去；可是，如果你见我之所见，感我之所感，而愿求我之所求，我请你一年后的今晚和我并肩站到议会大厦的外面，我们将一起给他们留下一个永生难忘的11月5日。


这一部电影，说出了多少真相！我们还在这么浑浑噩噩地活着么？ 
I.We are told to remember the idea and not the man 
我们被教导要记住思想，不是人 （世界我不知道该怎么评论了，我们总是被要求记住一个伟人，但是我们真正需要的只是他的思想！）
　　　　 
　　　Because a man can fail 
    He can be caught, 
　　　　he can be killed and forgotten 
　　　　因为人可能失败 
　　　　他可能会被捕 
　　　　他会被杀死、被遗忘 
　　　　 
　　　　I have witnessed firsthand 
　　　　the power of ideas. 
　　　　我亲眼目睹了思想的威力 
　　　　 
　　　　I've seen people kill 
　　　　in the name of them... 
　　　　我见过人们以它为名杀戮 
　　　　 
　　　　...and die defending them 
　　　　为维护它而送命 
　　　　 
　　　　But you cannot kill an idea......cannot touch it or hold it 
　　　　但你不能杀死思想不能触到它或者捧着它 
　　　　 
　　　　Ideas do not bleed. 
　　　　They do not feel pain. 
　　　　思想不会流血，不会感到痛苦 
　　　　思想不会死去 
　　　　 
　　　　They do not love.他们不会爱 （指政府） 

　 II.That with devotion's visage and pious action 
　　　　we do sugar o'er(over) the devil himself. 
　　　　人们往往用至诚的外表和虔敬的 
　　　　行动，掩饰一颗魔鬼般的 （人性）
　　　　 
　　　　Who is but the form 
　　　　following the function of what...... 
and what I am is a man in a mask. 
　　　　我是谁？名字只是事物的代号而已 
　　　　而我是一个戴面具的人 
　　　　 
　　　　I'm merely remarking upon the paradox 
　　　　of asking a masked man who he is. 
　　　　我不过是指出一个矛盾， 
　　　　需要问一个戴面具的人是谁吗？ 

　　 III.Our integrity sells for so little, 
　　　　but it is all we really have. 
　　　　我们的尊严是那么地小 
　　　　但那是我们仅有的 
　　　　 
　　　　It is the very last inch of us. 
　　　　那是我们最后一寸领地 
　　　　 
　　　　But within that inch......we are free. 
　　　　但在那一寸领地里，我们是自由的 

IV.Beneath this mask 
　　　　there is more than flesh. 
　　　　这张面具之下不止是肉体 
　　　　 
　　　　Beneath this mask there is an idea, 
　　　　Mr. Creedy. 
　　　　这张面具之下是一种 
　　　　思想，克里蒂先生 

And ideas are bulletproof. 
　　　　思想是杀不死的 
　　　　 
　　 V.The building is a symbol,as is the act of destroying it. 
Symbols are given power by people. 
Alone,a symbol is meaningless, 
but with enough people, 
blowing up a building can change the world.
　　　　 
这个建筑是个象征，毁灭它同样也是艺术。 
象征是因为人民才拥有力量. 
否则，象征没有意义。 
但如果有足够多的人，炸掉一座建筑可以改变世界！ 
